#IOPT Doc


## Raspberry Pi

### Setup

Burn image to SD Card

Edit `ssh`, `config.txt`, and `wpa_supplicant.conf`.

More info [here](https://learn.adafruit.com/raspberry-pi-zero-creation/text-file-editing)

```sh
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1
country=US
 
network={
    ssid="YOURSSID"
    psk="YOURPASSWORD"
    scan_ssid=1
}
```
Need to install `Bonjour`.  This is from iTunes installer.  

```cmd
Ping -4 raspberrypi.local

#gets ip address

Ssh pi@raspberrypi.local #requires Bonjour
#or
Ssh pi@192.168.86.140

```

config with `/usr/bin/raspi-config` (just run:)

```sh
sudo raspi-config
```

### Setting Locale

Might get errors without setting, and `raspi-config` doesnt seem to do the job.


`/etc/default/locale` should equal

```sh
#  File generated by update-locale
LANG=en_US.UTF-8
```
`sudo nano /etc/locale.gen` should have `en_US.UTF-8` uncommented

then run: `sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8` & `sudo update-locale en_US.UTF-8`

This generates locales.

Also, update the .bashrc


### Config

.bashrc will look for .bash_aliases and load it if present

```sh
touch .bash_aliases
sudo nano .bash_aliases

#--------Text
#! /bin/bash

alias cd..='cd ..'
alias sn='sudo nano'
echo 'aliases loaded...'
#update as needed
```

### APT Sources

is stored in `/etc/apt/sources.list`

#### upgrade distribution

`sudo apt-get dist-upgrade`

#### Purge

`sudo apt-get purge wolfram-engine`

`sudo apt-get autoremove`

`sudo apt-get update`

`sudo apt-get upgrade`

`sudo apt-get remove xrdp vnc4server tightvncserver`

`apt-cache search lxde` - to find past packages installed related to lxde?

### Internet

`ifconfig`

NAME
       ifconfig - configure a network interface

SYNOPSIS
   ifconfig [-v] [-a] [-s] [interface]
   ifconfig [-v] interface [aftype] options | address ...

   `-a`     display all interfaces which are currently available, even if down

   `-s`     display a short list (like netstat -i)

   `-v`     be more verbose for some error conditions

   [interface]
      The  name  of  the interface.  This is usually a driver name followed by a unit number, for example eth0 for the first ethernet interface. If your kernel supports alias interfaces,  you  can  specify them  with  syntax  like  eth0:0  for  the first alias of eth0. You can use them to assign more addresses. 
      
      To delete an alias interface use ifconfig eth0:0 down.  Note: for every scope  (i.e.  same net with address/netmask combination) all aliases are deleted, if you delete the first (primary).

   `up`     
      This  flag  causes  the interface to be activated.  It is       implicitly specified if an address is assigned to the interface; you can suppress this behavior when using an alias interface by  appending an  `-`  to  the alias (e.g.  `eth0:0-`).  It is also suppressed when using the IPv4 0.0.0.0 address as the kernel will use this to implicitly delete alias interfaces.

   `down`   
      This flag causes the driver for this interface to be shut down.

   `[-]promisc`
      Enable or disable the promiscuous mode of the interface.  If selected, all packets on  the  network will be received by the interface.

   `[-]allmulti`
      Enable  or  disable  all-multicast mode.  If selected, all multicast packets on the network will be received by the interface

### Remote Desktop

`sudo apt-get remove xrdp vnc4server tightvncserver` if prior install is causing problems


### Adding a desktop to RPi
[(https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/65848/how-do-i-upgrade-raspbian-lite-to-raspbian-pixel)]
[(https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/64152/how-to-get-desktop-logon-to-work-on-raspbian-jessie-lite-lightdm-fail/64170#64170)]

sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends xserver-xorg xinit
```sh
sudo apt-get install  xserver-xorg xinit
sudo apt-get install  xinit
sudo apt-get install raspberrypi-ui-mods
sudo apt-get install lightdm

sudo apt-get install tightvncserver
sudo apt-get install xrdp

```

GUI Stack:

CLI -> Xorg Server -> Window Manager -> Desktop Environment

[To Remove the Desktop from RPi](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/4745/how-to-uninstall-x-server-and-desktop-manager-when-running-as-headless-server)


### Circuit Python on RasPi

[adafruit-blinka](https://www.adafruit.com/?q=blinka)

RaspPi Library - [RPi-GPIO](https://pypi.org/project/RPi.GPIO/)

i2c interfacing via *ioctl* messages to the `/dev/I2c` device.  

SPI interfacing via the `spidev` library.

Alternatively, there is the [**GPIO Zero** library](https://gpiozero.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) -  this is good at I/O management, events/threads, but doesn't work well with SPI or I2C

#### Rasp pi

[Motion-Eye OS](https://github.com/ccrisan/motioneyeos)

[Releases](https://github.com/ccrisan/motioneyeos/releases)

## Take image

raspistill -o /home/pi/Pictures/test.jpg

Flags:
- `-o` Output [Directory]
- `-vf` Vertical Flip
- `-hf` Horizontal Flip